README.md, before:

# Nomad

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/brianshumate/ansible-nomad.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/brianshumate/ansible-nomad)
[![Ansible Galaxy](https://img.shields.io/badge/galaxy-brianshumate.nomad-blue.svg)](https://galaxy.ansible.com/brianshumate/nomad/)
[![Average time to resolve an issue](http://isitmaintained.com/badge/resolution/brianshumate/ansible-nomad.svg)](http://isitmaintained.com/project/brianshumate/ansible-nomad "Average time to resolve an issue")
[![Percentage of issues still open](http://isitmaintained.com/badge/open/brianshumate/ansible-nomad.svg)](http://isitmaintained.com/project/brianshumate/ansible-nomad "Percentage of issues still open")

This Ansible role performs basic [Nomad](https://nomadproject.io/)
installation, including filesystem structure, and example configuration.

It will also bootstrap a minimal cluster of 3 server nodes, and can do this
in a development environment based on Vagrant and VirtualBox. See
[README_VAGRANT.md](https://github.com/brianshumate/ansible-nomad/blob/master/examples/README_VAGRANT.md) for more details about the Vagrant setup.

## Requirements

This role requires a Debian, RHEL, or Ubuntu distribution; the role is tested
with the following specific software versions:

* Ansible: 2.2.1.0
* nomad: 0.5.6
* Debian: 8

## Role Variables

The role defines all variables in `defaults/main.yml`:

| Name           | Default Value | Description                        |
| -------------- | ------------- | -----------------------------------|
| `nomad_version` | `0.5.2` | nomad version to install |
| `nomad_architecture_map`|  | dict translating ansible_architecture to hashi architecture naming convention |
| `nomad_architecture`| `amd64`,`arm`,`arm64` | determined by `{{ nomad_architecture_map[ansible_architecture] }}` |
| `nomad_zip_url` | `https://releases.hashicorp.com/nomad/{{ nomad_version }}/nomad_{{ nomad_version }}_linux_{{nomad_architecture}}.zip` | nomad download URL |
| `nomad_bin_dir` | `/usr/local/bin` | nomad binary installation path |
| `nomad_config_dir` | `/etc/nomad.d` | nomad configuration file path |
| `nomad_data_dir` | `/var/nomad` | nomad data path |
| `nomad_log_dir` | `/var/log/nomad` | nomad log path |
| `nomad_user` | `nomad` | nomad OS user |
| `nomad_group` | `bin` | nomad OS group |
| `nomad_region` | `global` | The default region |
| `nomad_datacenter` | boone | nomad datacenter label |
| `nomad_log_level` | `INFO` | Logging level |
| `nomad_syslog_enable` | true | nomad logs to syslog |
| `nomad_iface` | `eth1` | nomad network interface |
| `nomad_advertise_address` | dynamic from hosts inventory | The interface address to advertise to other nodes |
| `nomad_bind_address` | "0.0.0.0" | Default bind address |
| `nomad_enable_docker` | `false` | Install Docker subsystem on nodes? |
| 'nomad_use_consul' | `False` | bootstrap nomad via native consul zero-conf suppport.. assumes consul default ports etc|

### OS Distribution Variables

The `nomad` binary works on most Linux platforms and is not distribution
specific. However, some distributions require installation of specific OS
packages with different naming, so this role was built with support for
popular Linux distributions and defines these variables to deal with the
differences acros distros:

| Name           | Default Value | Description                        |
| -------------- | ------------- | -----------------------------------|
| `nomad_centos_pkg` | `{{ nomad_version }}_linux_amd64.zip` | nomad package filename |
| `nomad_centos_url` | `{{ nomad_zip_url }}` | nomad package download URL |
| `nomad_centos_sha256` | SHA256 SUM | nomad download SHA256 summary |
| `nomad_centos_os_packages` | list | List of OS packages to install |
| `nomad_debian_pkg` | `{{ nomad_version }}_linux_amd64.zip` | nomad package filename |
| `nomad_debian_url` | `{{ nomad_zip_url }}` | nomad package download URL |
| `nomad_debian_sha256` | SHA256 SUM | nomad download SHA256 summary |
| `nomad_debian_os_packages` | list | List of OS packages to install |
| `nomad_redhat_pkg` | `{{ nomad_version }}_linux_amd64.zip` | nomad package filename |
| `nomad_redhat_url` | `{{ nomad_zip_url }}` | nomad package download URL |
| `nomad_redhat_sha256` | SHA256 SUM | nomad download SHA256 summary |
| `nomad_redhat_os_packages` | list | List of OS packages to install |
| `nomad_ubuntu_pkg` | `{{ nomad_version }}_linux_amd64.zip` | nomad package filename |
| `nomad_ubuntu_url` | `{{ nomad_zip_url }}` | nomad package download URL |
| `nomad_ubuntu_sha256` | SHA256 SUM | nomad download SHA256 summary |
| `nomad_ubuntu_os_packages` | list | List of OS packages to install |

## Dependencies

Ansible requires GNU tar and this role performs some local use of the
unarchive module, so ensure that your system has `gtar` installed.

## Example Playbook

Basic nomad installation is possible using the included `site.yml` playbook:

```
ansible-playbook -i <hosts> site.yml
```

You can also simply pass variables in using the `--extra-vars` option to the
`ansible-playbook` command:

```
ansible-playbook -i hosts site.yml --extra-vars "nomad_datacenter=maui"
```

### Vagrant and VirtualBox

See `examples/README_VAGRANT.md` for details on quick Vagrant deployments
under VirtualBox for testing, etc.

## License

BSD

## Author Information

[Brian Shumate](http://brianshumate.com)

## Contributors

Special thanks to the folks listed in [CONTRIBUTORS.md](https://github.com/brianshumate/ansible-nomad/blob/master/CONTRIBUTORS.md) for their
contributions to this project.

Contributions are welcome, provided that you can agree to the terms outlined
in [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/brianshumate/ansible-nomad/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

Commit message:

Add support for custom nomad config

README.md, after:

# Nomad

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/brianshumate/ansible-nomad.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/brianshumate/ansible-nomad)
[![Ansible Galaxy](https://img.shields.io/badge/galaxy-brianshumate.nomad-blue.svg)](https://galaxy.ansible.com/brianshumate/nomad/)
[![Average time to resolve an issue](http://isitmaintained.com/badge/resolution/brianshumate/ansible-nomad.svg)](http://isitmaintained.com/project/brianshumate/ansible-nomad "Average time to resolve an issue")
[![Percentage of issues still open](http://isitmaintained.com/badge/open/brianshumate/ansible-nomad.svg)](http://isitmaintained.com/project/brianshumate/ansible-nomad "Percentage of issues still open")

This Ansible role performs basic [Nomad](https://nomadproject.io/)
installation, including filesystem structure, and example configuration.

It will also bootstrap a minimal cluster of 3 server nodes, and can do this
in a development environment based on Vagrant and VirtualBox. See
[README_VAGRANT.md](https://github.com/brianshumate/ansible-nomad/blob/master/examples/README_VAGRANT.md) for more details about the Vagrant setup.

## Requirements

This role requires a Debian, RHEL, or Ubuntu distribution; the role is tested
with the following specific software versions:

* Ansible: 2.2.1.0
* nomad: 0.5.6
* Debian: 8

## Role Variables

The role defines all variables in `defaults/main.yml`:

| Name           | Default Value | Description                        |
| -------------- | ------------- | -----------------------------------|
| `nomad_version` | `0.5.2` | nomad version to install |
| `nomad_architecture_map`|  | dict translating ansible_architecture to hashi architecture naming convention |
| `nomad_architecture`| `amd64`,`arm`,`arm64` | determined by `{{ nomad_architecture_map[ansible_architecture] }}` |
| `nomad_zip_url` | `https://releases.hashicorp.com/nomad/{{ nomad_version }}/nomad_{{ nomad_version }}_linux_{{nomad_architecture}}.zip` | nomad download URL |
| `nomad_bin_dir` | `/usr/local/bin` | nomad binary installation path |
| `nomad_config_dir` | `/etc/nomad.d` | nomad configuration file path |
| `nomad_data_dir` | `/var/nomad` | nomad data path |
| `nomad_log_dir` | `/var/log/nomad` | nomad log path |
| `nomad_user` | `nomad` | nomad OS user |
| `nomad_group` | `bin` | nomad OS group |
| `nomad_region` | `global` | The default region |
| `nomad_datacenter` | boone | nomad datacenter label |
| `nomad_log_level` | `INFO` | Logging level |
| `nomad_syslog_enable` | true | nomad logs to syslog |
| `nomad_iface` | `eth1` | nomad network interface |
| `nomad_advertise_address` | dynamic from hosts inventory | The interface address to advertise to other nodes |
| `nomad_bind_address` | "0.0.0.0" | Default bind address |
| `nomad_enable_docker` | `false` | Install Docker subsystem on nodes? |
| 'nomad_use_consul' | `False` | bootstrap nomad via native consul zero-conf suppport.. assumes consul default ports etc|

#### Custom Configuration Section

As Nomad loads the configuration from files and directories in lexical order,
typically merging on top of previously parsed configuration files, you may set
custom configurations via `nomad_config_custom`, which will be expanded into a file named `custom.json` within your `nomad_config_dir` which will
be loaded after all other configuration by default.

An example usage for enabling `vault`:

```yaml
  vars:
    nomad_config_custom:
      vault:
        enabled          : true
        ca_path          : "/etc/certs/ca"
        cert_file        : "/var/certs/vault.crt"
        key_file         : "/var/certs/vault.key"
        address          : "https://vault.service.consul:8200"
        create_from_role : "nomad-cluster"
```

### OS Distribution Variables

The `nomad` binary works on most Linux platforms and is not distribution
specific. However, some distributions require installation of specific OS
packages with different naming, so this role was built with support for
popular Linux distributions and defines these variables to deal with the
differences acros distros:

| Name           | Default Value | Description                        |
| -------------- | ------------- | -----------------------------------|
| `nomad_centos_pkg` | `{{ nomad_version }}_linux_amd64.zip` | nomad package filename |
| `nomad_centos_url` | `{{ nomad_zip_url }}` | nomad package download URL |
| `nomad_centos_sha256` | SHA256 SUM | nomad download SHA256 summary |
| `nomad_centos_os_packages` | list | List of OS packages to install |
| `nomad_debian_pkg` | `{{ nomad_version }}_linux_amd64.zip` | nomad package filename |
| `nomad_debian_url` | `{{ nomad_zip_url }}` | nomad package download URL |
| `nomad_debian_sha256` | SHA256 SUM | nomad download SHA256 summary |
| `nomad_debian_os_packages` | list | List of OS packages to install |
| `nomad_redhat_pkg` | `{{ nomad_version }}_linux_amd64.zip` | nomad package filename |
| `nomad_redhat_url` | `{{ nomad_zip_url }}` | nomad package download URL |
| `nomad_redhat_sha256` | SHA256 SUM | nomad download SHA256 summary |
| `nomad_redhat_os_packages` | list | List of OS packages to install |
| `nomad_ubuntu_pkg` | `{{ nomad_version }}_linux_amd64.zip` | nomad package filename |
| `nomad_ubuntu_url` | `{{ nomad_zip_url }}` | nomad package download URL |
| `nomad_ubuntu_sha256` | SHA256 SUM | nomad download SHA256 summary |
| `nomad_ubuntu_os_packages` | list | List of OS packages to install |

## Dependencies

Ansible requires GNU tar and this role performs some local use of the
unarchive module, so ensure that your system has `gtar` installed.

## Example Playbook

Basic nomad installation is possible using the included `site.yml` playbook:

```
ansible-playbook -i <hosts> site.yml
```

You can also simply pass variables in using the `--extra-vars` option to the
`ansible-playbook` command:

```
ansible-playbook -i hosts site.yml --extra-vars "nomad_datacenter=maui"
```

### Vagrant and VirtualBox

See `examples/README_VAGRANT.md` for details on quick Vagrant deployments
under VirtualBox for testing, etc.

## License

BSD

## Author Information

[Brian Shumate](http://brianshumate.com)

## Contributors

Special thanks to the folks listed in [CONTRIBUTORS.md](https://github.com/brianshumate/ansible-nomad/blob/master/CONTRIBUTORS.md) for their
contributions to this project.

Contributions are welcome, provided that you can agree to the terms outlined
in [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/brianshumate/ansible-nomad/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
